feat: base survey 2025 (#331)
nodejs/next-10: surveys/2025-04/questions.md

# Survey April 2025

## Demographics

> - Where are you from? (countries list if possible - or open question)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Where do you currently live? (countries list if possible - or open question)
```

Reviewer 2: I think best to have respondent pick from list of countries. Open response for this item was messy in the 2023 survey

Reviewer 2: For demographics section, can we also add items like ‘What is your native spoken language?’ and ‘What are your favourite/preferred programming languages?’. Having these details would help further parse out perceived challenges w/ using Node and preference for different NodeJs features.

Reviewer 3: Agreed we should only pick from the list

  - Country

> - How long have you been working with Node.js? (numbers list from 0 to 10+)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- How long have you been working with Node.js? (numbers list from 0 to 15+)
```

  - do we want to have a 15 for the max year?

- In what kind of organizations are you working in?
  - big tech
  - company
  - startup
  - academia (school, university..)

>   - individual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Government
```

>   - individual

Reviewer 2: Suggested changes & additional response options:
- individual/freelance
- government/public sector
- NGO/not for profit

  - other

- If working in a company, in which sector does your company operate? (single choice - Other should give an input)

>   - this question should only be displayed for people that selected company (and startup?)

Reviewer: Go through the other from the last survey and add larger categories.

  - Energy
  - Materials
  - Industrials
  - Health Care
  - Financials
  - Information Technology
  - Communication Services
  - Utilities
  - Real Estate
  - Other?

## Node.js Usage

> - Which groups do you identify with? (multiple choice)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Which of the following best reflects your role regarding Node.js? (multiple choice)
```

  - Node.js core maintainers: Developers working directly on Node.js, individuals participating in Working Groups
  - Library & package authors: Users who write libraries and packages to be included on other applications
  - Application developers: Frontend tools consumers, backend server authors, tools authors
  - Direct end users: Users who run tools themselves
  - Application operators: Service and infrastructure providers
  

> - Are you part of an organization with investments in Node.js? (eg: Enterprises, Gouvernement bodies, Startups, Non-profit, Education, Security)
>   - yes
>   - no
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select all that apply, add links to sponsor sites, other is open ended

- How does your organization invest in JavaScript related projects ? 
  - sponsors your time to work in the Node.js project
  - sponsors your time to work in JavaScript projects other than Node.js
  - sponsors Node.js directly through crowdfunding (for example, GitHub sponsors or Open Collective)
  - sponsors JavaScript packages in the ecosystem through crowdfunding (for example, GitHub sponsors or Open Collective)
  - Through membership in the OpenJS foundation
  - other
  - none
```

- What is your use cases of Node.js ? (multiple choice) (open question - Other should give an input)
  - Cli tools
  - Testing
  - Development of APIs with Microservices
  - Development of APIs with Serverless
  - Development of APIs with Other

>   - Building static front end applications
>   - Deploying front end applications (Next.js, Remix, etc...)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Tooling used to build front end applications
  - Full stack development (Next.js, Remix, etc...)
```

  - Script and automation (bots, scrapers)

>   - Proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Http proxy
```

  - x64
  - x32
  - arm
  - Don't know
  - Other?

- How do you get your `node` executables? (multiple choice – Other should give an input)
  - With a Node.js version manager: nvm, n, nave, nvs, volta, etc.
  - Using the official installer
  - Using package managers like npm or yarn and install Node.js as a package
  - Using a system package manager: apt-get, brew, dnf, yum …
  - Downloading binaries directly from Nodejs.org
  - Building Node.js from Source
  - Other

- What package manager do you use ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - npm
  - yarn v1
  - yarn modern (2+)
  - pnpm
  - Other?

- Which version manager do you use (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - none
  - nvm
  - n
  - asdf
  - fnm
  - nodenv
  - volta
  - Other?

- How do you manage the package manager for your project? (multiple choice – Other should give an input)
  - I use one version installed globally for all my projects.
  - I use a tool to pick a specific version per project (e.g. Corepack, asdf, …).
  - I use containers.
  - Other?

## Project Priorities and Direction

> - Do we want to keep the same question as last year?

Reviewer: maybe some related to "have you tried Node.js's support for TypeScript" and maybe what are your remaining pain points in using ESM?

> - Do we want to keep the same question as last year?

Reviewer: From discussion in next-10 meeting add question about if people are aware of ability to fund through GitHub Sponsors, Open Collective or membership in Foundation.

Also ask if they are an individual sponsor of through the above.

# Survey April 2025

## Demographics

> - Where are you from? (countries list if possible - or open question)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Where are you from? (countries list)
```

  - Country

- How long have you been working with Node.js? (numbers list from 0 to 15+)

- In what kind of organizations are you working in?
  - big tech
  - company
  - startup
  - academia (school, university..)
  - Government
  - other

- If working in a company, in which sector does your company operate? (single choice - Other should give an input)
  - this question should only be displayed for people that selected company (and startup?)
  - Energy
  - Materials
  - Industrials
  - Health Care
  - Financials
  - Information Technology
  - Communication Services
  - Utilities
  - Real Estate
  - Other?

## Node.js Usage

Which of the following best reflects your role regarding Node.js? (multiple choice)
  - Node.js core maintainers: Developers working directly on Node.js, individuals participating in Working Groups
  - Library & package authors: Users who write libraries and packages to be included on other applications

> - Application developers: Frontend 
> - Application developers: backend server authors
> - Application developers: fullstack (front end and back end)
> - Application developers: tools authors

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - Application developers: Frontend 
 - Application developers: backend server authors
 - Application developers: fullstack (front end and back end)
 - Application developers: tools authors
```

>  - Application developers: Frontend 
>  - Application developers: backend server authors
>  - Application developers: fullstack (front end and back end)
>  - Application developers: tools authors

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Application developers: Frontend 
  - Application developers: backend server authors
  - Application developers: fullstack (front end and back end)
  - Application developers: tools authors
```

  - x64
  - x32
  - arm
  - Don't know
  - Other?

- How do you get your `node` executables? (multiple choice – Other should give an input)
  - With a Node.js version manager: nvm, n, nave, nvs, volta, etc.
  - Using the official installer
  - Using package managers like npm or yarn and install Node.js as a package
  - Using a system package manager: apt-get, brew, dnf, yum …
  - Downloading binaries directly from Nodejs.org
  - Building Node.js from Source
  - Other

- What package manager do you use ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - npm
  - yarn v1
  - yarn modern (2+)
  - pnpm
  - Other?

- Which version manager do you use (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - none
  - nvm
  - n
  - asdf
  - fnm
  - nodenv
  - volta
  - Other?

- How do you manage the package manager for your project? (multiple choice – Other should give an input)
  - I use one version installed globally for all my projects.
  - I use a tool to pick a specific version per project (e.g. Corepack, asdf, …).
  - I use containers.
  - Other?

## Project Priorities and Direction

> - Do we want to keep the same question as last year?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Which of the current [Technical Priorities](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/main/doc/contributing/technical-priorities.md) are important to you ? (multiple choice)
  - Modern HTTP
  - Suitable types for end-users
  - Documentation
  - WebAssembly
  - ESM
  - Support for features from the latest ECMAScript spec
  - Observability
  - Permissions/policies/security model
  - Better multithreaded support
  - Single Executable Applications
  - TypeScript Support

- Are there technical priorities that you believe are missing (open question)

- What is important to you ? (multiple choice)
  - Good understanding of the direction of the project
  - Ability to affect the direction of the project
  - Consumable APIs and docs
  - Predictable and stable releases
  - Innovation at a consumable pace
  - Easy Installation
  - Easy issue reporting, resolution and collaboration
  - Broad deployment platform support
  - Broad development platform support
  - Consistent and intuitive error handling
  - Runtime diagnostic tooling
  - Development time diagnostic tooling
  - Relevant APIs in core
  - Module/dependency info and management
  - Ways to fund their work
  - Reasonable resource usage/performance
  - Good security and CVE practices
  - Good CI infrastructure and experience in the project
  - Supportive Collaborators and Environment in the project
  - Better ways to build consensus in the project
  - Easy contribution workflow
  - Ability to embed and bundle the Node.js runtime
  - A well maintained and secure standard library
  - Assets that show Node.js is a good choice

- What is important to you that is not in this list? (open question)
```

# Survey April 2025

## Demographics

- Where are you from? (countries list if possible - or open question)
  - Country

- How long have you been working with Node.js? (numbers list from 0 to 15+)

>   - do we want to have a 15 for the max year?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - do we want to have a 15 for the max year?
```

  - Ability to affect the direction of the project
  - Consumable APIs and docs
  - Predictable and stable releases
  - Innovation at a consumable pace
  - Easy Installation
  - Easy issue reporting, resolution and collaboration
  - Broad deployment platform support
  - Broad development platform support
  - Consistent and intuitive error handling
  - Runtime diagnostic tooling
  - Development time diagnostic tooling
  - Relevant APIs in core
  - Module/dependency info and management
  - Ways to fund their work
  - Reasonable resource usage/performance
  - Good security and CVE practices
  - Good CI infrastructure and experience in the project
  - Supportive Collaborators and Environment in the project
  - Better ways to build consensus in the project
  - Easy contribution workflow
  - Ability to embed and bundle the Node.js runtime
  - A well maintained and secure standard library
  - Assets that show Node.js is a good choice

- What is important to you that is not in this list? (open question)

## Technical Questions

- Regardless of how your code is written in its original form, when it runs in production, does it contain ES module syntax (`import`/`export`)?
  - Yes
  - No

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Are you using the following experimental features of Node.js (multiple choice)?
  - Corepack
  - Async Hooks
  - Permission model / Policies
  - Single Executable Application
  - Startup Snapshot
  - Loader hooks (`--loader` or `module.register()`)
  - Network import (`import 'http://...'`)
  - WASI
  - VM Modules (`--experimental-vm-modules`)
  - Watch mode (`--watch`)
  - WebSocket client
  - Trace events (`--trace-event-categories` or `node:trace_events`)
  - Dotenv (`--env-file`)
  - Import attributes

- Are you using the following new stable features (multiple choice):
- Test runner (`node:test`)
- Web Crypto (`globalThis.crypto` or `crypto.webcrypto`)
- Web Streams (`node:stream/web`)
- Fetch

- Do you encounter any recurring issues when using Node.js that you would like to share with us ? (open question)

```

  - Application operators: Service and infrastructure providers
  
Select all that apply, add links to sponsor sites, other is open ended

- How does your organization invest in JavaScript related projects ? 
  - sponsors your time to work in the Node.js project
  - sponsors your time to work in JavaScript projects other than Node.js
  - sponsors Node.js directly through crowdfunding (for example, GitHub sponsors or Open Collective)
  - sponsors JavaScript packages in the ecosystem through crowdfunding (for example, GitHub sponsors or Open Collective)
  - through membership in the OpenJS foundation
  - other
  - none

- What is your use cases of Node.js ? (multiple choice) (open question - Other should give an input)
  - Cli tools
  - Testing
  - Development of APIs with Microservices
  - Development of APIs with Serverless
  - Development of APIs with Other
  - Tooling used to build front end applications
  - Full stack development (Next.js, Remix, etc...)
  - Implementing desktop applications (ex electron based applications)
  - Mobile applications 
  - Script and automation (bots, scrapers)
  - Http proxy
  - IoT/Edge devices
  - other

## What Node.js binaries do you use

> - What is your Operating System for your local development environment ? (single choice - Other should give an input)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- What is your Operating System for your local development environment ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
```

  - Linux
  - Windows
  - macOS
  - Linux with Docker
  - Windows with Docker
  - macOS with Docker
  - Windows with WSL
  - Android
  - Other?

- What is your Operating System in which you are running Node.js in production ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - Linux/Unix
  - Windows
  - macOS
  - Linux with Docker
  - Windows with Docker

>   - macOS with Docker

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - macOS with Docker
  - Android
  - Serveless
  - Unknown
```

  - Http proxy
  - IoT/Edge devices
  - other

## What Node.js binaries do you use

- What is your Operating System for your local development environment ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - Linux
  - Windows
  - macOS
  - Linux with Docker
  - Windows with Docker
  - macOS with Docker
  - Windows with WSL
  - Android
  - Other?

- What is your Operating System in which you are running Node.js in production ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - Linux/Unix
  - Windows
  - macOS
  - Linux with Docker
  - Windows with Docker
  - macOS with Docker
  - Android
  - Serveless
  - Unknown
  - Other?

- What architecture is the machine you are running Node.js in production? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - x64
  - x32
  - arm
  - Don't know
  - Other?

- How do you get your `node` executables? (multiple choice – Other should give an input)
  - With a Node.js version manager: nvm, n, nave, nvs, volta, etc.
  - Using the official installer
  - Using package managers like npm or yarn and install Node.js as a package
  - Using a system package manager: apt-get, brew, dnf, yum …
  - Downloading binaries directly from Nodejs.org

>   - Building Node.js from Source

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Building Node.js from Source
  - Docker Image
```

  - Development of APIs with Other
  - Tooling used to build front end applications
  - Full stack development (Next.js, Remix, etc...)
  - Implementing desktop applications (ex electron based applications)
  - Mobile applications 
  - Script and automation (bots, scrapers)
  - Http proxy
  - IoT/Edge devices
  - other

## What Node.js binaries do you use

- What is your Operating System for your local development environment ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - Linux
  - Windows
  - macOS
  - Linux with Docker
  - Windows with Docker
  - macOS with Docker
  - Windows with WSL
  - Android
  - Other?

- What is your Operating System in which you are running Node.js in production ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - Linux/Unix
  - Windows
  - macOS
  - Linux with Docker
  - Windows with Docker
  - macOS with Docker
  - Android
  - Serveless
  - Unknown
  - Other?

- What architecture is the machine you are running Node.js in production? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - x64
  - x32
  - arm
  - Don't know
  - Other?

- How do you get your `node` executables? (multiple choice – Other should give an input)

>   - With a Node.js version manager: nvm, n, nave, nvs, volta, etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - With a Node.js version manager: nvm, n, nave, nvs, volta, mise, asdf, etc.
```

  - Using the official installer
  - Using package managers like npm or yarn and install Node.js as a package
  - Using a system package manager: apt-get, brew, dnf, yum …
  - Downloading binaries directly from Nodejs.org
  - Building Node.js from Source

>   - Docker Image

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Docker Image
```

  - Other

- What package manager do you use ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - npm
  - yarn v1
  - yarn modern (2+)

>   - pnpm

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - pnpm
  - bun
```

- What is your Operating System in which you are running Node.js in production ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - Linux/Unix
  - Windows
  - macOS
  - Linux with Docker
  - Windows with Docker
  - macOS with Docker
  - Android
  - Serveless
  - Unknown
  - Other?

- What architecture is the machine you are running Node.js in production? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - x64
  - x32
  - arm
  - Don't know
  - Other?

- How do you get your `node` executables? (multiple choice – Other should give an input)
  - With a Node.js version manager: nvm, n, nave, nvs, volta, mise, asdf, etc.
  - Using the official installer
  - Using package managers like npm or yarn and install Node.js as a package
  - Using a system package manager: apt-get, brew, dnf, yum …
  - Downloading binaries directly from Nodejs.org
  - Building Node.js from Source
  - Docker Image
  - Other

- What package manager do you use ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - npm
  - yarn v1
  - yarn modern (2+)
  - pnpm
  - bun
  - Other?

- Which version manager do you use (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - none
  - nvm
  - n
  - asdf
  - fnm
  - nodenv

>   - volta

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - volta
  - pnpm
```

  - Downloading binaries directly from Nodejs.org
  - Building Node.js from Source
  - Docker Image
  - Other

- What package manager do you use ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - npm
  - yarn v1
  - yarn modern (2+)
  - pnpm
  - bun
  - Other?

- Which version manager do you use (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - none
  - nvm
  - n
  - asdf
  - fnm
  - nodenv
  - volta
  - pnpm
  - Other?

- How do you manage the package manager for your project? (multiple choice – Other should give an input)
  - I use one version installed globally for all my projects.
  - I use a tool to pick a specific version per project (e.g. Corepack, asdf, …).
  - I use containers.
  - Other?

## Project Priorities and Direction

- Which of the current [Technical Priorities](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/main/doc/contributing/technical-priorities.md) are important to you ? (multiple choice)
  - Modern HTTP
  - Suitable types for end-users
  - Documentation
  - WebAssembly
  - ESM
  - Support for features from the latest ECMAScript spec
  - Observability
  - Permissions/policies/security model
  - Better multithreaded support
  - Single Executable Applications

>   - TypeScript Support

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - TypeScript Support
  - Native Addons
  - HTTP3/Quic
  - Performance
```

  - Ability to affect the direction of the project
  - Consumable APIs and docs
  - Predictable and stable releases
  - Innovation at a consumable pace
  - Easy Installation
  - Easy issue reporting, resolution and collaboration
  - Broad deployment platform support
  - Broad development platform support
  - Consistent and intuitive error handling
  - Runtime diagnostic tooling
  - Development time diagnostic tooling
  - Relevant APIs in core
  - Module/dependency info and management
  - Ways to fund their work
  - Reasonable resource usage/performance
  - Good security and CVE practices
  - Good CI infrastructure and experience in the project
  - Supportive Collaborators and Environment in the project
  - Better ways to build consensus in the project
  - Easy contribution workflow
  - Ability to embed and bundle the Node.js runtime
  - A well maintained and secure standard library
  - Assets that show Node.js is a good choice

- What is important to you that is not in this list? (open question)

## Technical Questions

- Regardless of how your code is written in its original form, when it runs in production, does it contain ES module syntax (`import`/`export`)?
  - Yes

>   - No

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - No

```

  - With a Node.js version manager: nvm, n, nave, nvs, volta, mise, asdf, etc.
  - Using the official installer
  - Using package managers like npm or yarn and install Node.js as a package
  - Using a system package manager: apt-get, brew, dnf, yum …
  - Downloading binaries directly from Nodejs.org
  - Building Node.js from Source
  - Docker Image
  - Other

- What package manager do you use ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - npm
  - yarn v1
  - yarn modern (2+)
  - pnpm
  - bun
  - Other?

- Which version manager do you use (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - none
  - nvm
  - n
  - asdf
  - fnm
  - nodenv
  - volta
  - pnpm
  - Other?

- How do you manage the package manager for your project? (multiple choice – Other should give an input)
  - I use one version installed globally for all my projects.
  - I use a tool to pick a specific version per project (e.g. Corepack, asdf, …).
  - I use containers.
  - Other?

## Project Priorities and Direction

- Which of the current [Technical Priorities](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/main/doc/contributing/technical-priorities.md) are important to you ? (multiple choice)

>   - Modern HTTP

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Modern HTTP (HTTP3, quic)
```

  - Suitable types for end-users
  - Documentation
  - WebAssembly
  - ESM
  - Support for features from the latest ECMAScript spec
  - Observability
  - Permissions/policies/security model
  - Better multithreaded support
  - Single Executable Applications
  - TypeScript Support
  - Native Addons

>   - HTTP3/Quic

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

  - Innovation at a consumable pace
  - Easy Installation
  - Easy issue reporting, resolution and collaboration
  - Broad deployment platform support
  - Broad development platform support
  - Consistent and intuitive error handling
  - Runtime diagnostic tooling
  - Development time diagnostic tooling
  - Relevant APIs in core
  - Module/dependency info and management
  - Ways to fund their work
  - Reasonable resource usage/performance
  - Good security and CVE practices
  - Good CI infrastructure and experience in the project
  - Supportive Collaborators and Environment in the project
  - Better ways to build consensus in the project
  - Easy contribution workflow
  - Ability to embed and bundle the Node.js runtime
  - A well maintained and secure standard library
  - Assets that show Node.js is a good choice

- What is important to you that is not in this list? (open question)

## Technical Questions

- Regardless of how your code is written in its original form, when it runs in production, does it contain ES module syntax (`import`/`export`)?
  - Yes
  - No

- Are you using the following experimental features of Node.js (multiple choice)?
  - Corepack
  - Async Hooks

>   - Permission model / Policies

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

  - Single Executable Application
  - Startup Snapshot
  - Loader hooks (`--loader` or `module.register()`)
  - Network import (`import 'http://...'`)
  - WASI
  - VM Modules (`--experimental-vm-modules`)
  - Watch mode (`--watch`)
  - WebSocket client
  - Trace events (`--trace-event-categories` or `node:trace_events`)
  - Dotenv (`--env-file`)
  - Import attributes

> - Are you using the following new stable features (multiple choice):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Are you using the following new stable features (multiple choice):
  - Permission model / Policies
```

  - Good CI infrastructure and experience in the project
  - Supportive Collaborators and Environment in the project
  - Better ways to build consensus in the project
  - Easy contribution workflow
  - Ability to embed and bundle the Node.js runtime
  - A well maintained and secure standard library
  - Assets that show Node.js is a good choice

- What is important to you that is not in this list? (open question)

## Technical Questions

- Regardless of how your code is written in its original form, when it runs in production, does it contain ES module syntax (`import`/`export`)?
  - Yes
  - No

- Are you using the following experimental features of Node.js (multiple choice)?
  - Corepack
  - Async Hooks
  - Permission model / Policies
  - Single Executable Application
  - Startup Snapshot
  - Loader hooks (`--loader` or `module.register()`)
  - Network import (`import 'http://...'`)
  - WASI
  - VM Modules (`--experimental-vm-modules`)
  - Watch mode (`--watch`)
  - WebSocket client
  - Trace events (`--trace-event-categories` or `node:trace_events`)
  - Dotenv (`--env-file`)
  - Import attributes

- Are you using the following new stable features (multiple choice):

>   - Permission model / Policies

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Permission model / Policies
```

# Survey April 2025

## Demographics

- Where do you currently live? (countries list)
  - Country

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

- What is your primary language? (add list of languages)

```

- How long have you been working with Node.js? (numbers list from 0 to 15+)

- In what kind of organizations are you working in?

>   - Big tech
>   - Company
>   - Startup

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Company
```

  - Academia (school, university..)
  - Government

>   - NGO (no profit)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - NGO (not for profit)
```

  - Individual/Freelance

>   - Other

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Unemployed
  - Other
```

- If working in a company, in which sector does your company operate? (single choice - Other should give an input)
  - Energy
  - Materials
  - Industrials
  - Health Care
  - Financials
  - Information Technology
  - Communication Services
  - Utilities
  - Real Estate

>   - Other?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Agricultural tech
  - Other
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

- What is the number of employees/member of the organization you are part of? (single choice)
  - 0 to 9
  - 10 to 99
  - 100 to 499
  - 500 to 999
  - 1000+
  
```

## Node.js Usage

- Which of the following best reflects your role regarding Node.js? (multiple choice)
  - Node.js core maintainers: Developers working directly on Node.js, individuals participating in Working Groups
  - Library & package authors: Users who write libraries and packages to be included on other applications
  - Application developers: Frontend
  - Application developers: backend server authors
  - Application developers: fullstack (front end and back end)
  - Application developers: tools authors
  - Direct end users: Users who run tools themselves
  - Application operators: Service and infrastructure providers
  

> - How does your organization invest in JavaScript related projects ?
>   - sponsors your time to work in the Node.js project
>   - sponsors your time to work in JavaScript projects other than Node.js
>   - sponsors Node.js directly through crowdfunding (for example, GitHub sponsors or Open Collective)
>   - sponsors JavaScript packages in the ecosystem through crowdfunding (for example, GitHub sponsors or Open Collective)
>   - through membership in the OpenJS foundation
>   - other
>   - none

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- How does your organization invest in Node.js ?
  - sponsors your time to work in the Node.js project
  - sponsors your time to work in JavaScript packages in the ecosystem
  - sponsors Node.js directly through crowdfunding (for example, GitHub sponsors or Open Collective)
  - sponsors JavaScript packages in the ecosystem through crowdfunding (for example, GitHub sponsors or Open Collective)
  - through membership in the OpenJS foundation
  - other
  - none
```

- What is your use cases of Node.js ? (multiple choice) (open question - Other should give an input)
  - Cli tools
  - Testing
  - Development of APIs with Microservices
  - Development of APIs with Serverless
  - Development of APIs with Other
  - Tooling used to build front end applications
  - Full stack development (Next.js, Remix, etc...)
  - Implementing desktop applications (ex electron based applications)
  - Mobile applications 

>   - Script and automation (bots, scrapers)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Scripting automation
```

  - Http proxy
  - IoT/Edge devices
  - other

## What Node.js binaries do you use

- What is your Operating System for your local development environment ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - Linux
  - Windows
  - macOS
  - Linux with Docker
  - Windows with Docker
  - macOS with Docker
  - Windows with WSL
  - Android
  - Other?

- What is your Operating System in which you are running Node.js in production ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - Linux/Unix
  - Windows
  - macOS
  - Linux with Docker
  - Windows with Docker
  - macOS with Docker
  - Android

>   - Serveless

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Serverless
```

  - Building Node.js from Source
  - Docker Image
  - Other

- What package manager do you use ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - npm
  - yarn v1
  - yarn modern (2+)
  - pnpm
  - bun
  - Other?

- Which version manager do you use (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - none
  - nvm
  - n
  - asdf
  - fnm
  - nodenv
  - volta
  - pnpm
  - Other?

- How do you manage the package manager for your project? (multiple choice – Other should give an input)
  - I use one version installed globally for all my projects.
  - I use a tool to pick a specific version per project (e.g. Corepack, asdf, …).
  - I use containers.
  - Other?

## Project Priorities and Direction

- Which of the current [Technical Priorities](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/main/doc/contributing/technical-priorities.md) are important to you ? (multiple choice)
  - Modern HTTP (HTTP3, quic)
  - Suitable types for end-users
  - Documentation
  - WebAssembly
  - ESM
  - Support for features from the latest ECMAScript spec
  - Observability
  - Permissions/policies/security model
  - Better multithreaded support
  - Single Executable Applications

>   - TypeScript Support

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - TypeScript Support
```

Reviewer 3: reminder add typescript to technical priorities

>   - Native Addons

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Serverless
  - Small footprint
  - Developers-first DX
  - Package management
```

>   - Performance

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> - Are there technical priorities that you believe are missing (open question)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

- What is important to you ? (multiple choice)
  - Good understanding of the direction of the project
  - Ability to affect the direction of the project
  - Consumable APIs and docs
  - Predictable and stable releases
  - Innovation at a consumable pace
  - Easy Installation
  - Easy issue reporting, resolution and collaboration
  - Broad deployment platform support
  - Broad development platform support
  - Consistent and intuitive error handling
  - Runtime diagnostic tooling
  - Development time diagnostic tooling
  - Relevant APIs in core
  - Module/dependency info and management
  - Ways to fund their work
  - Reasonable resource usage/performance
  - Good security and CVE practices
  - Good CI infrastructure and experience in the project
  - Supportive Collaborators and Environment in the project
  - Better ways to build consensus in the project
  - Easy contribution workflow
  - Ability to embed and bundle the Node.js runtime
  - A well maintained and secure standard library

>   - Assets that show Node.js is a good choice

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Assets that show Node.js is a good choice
  - Other
```

> - What is important to you that is not in this list? (open question)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

## Technical Questions

- Are you using the following experimental features of Node.js (multiple choice)?
  - Corepack
  - Async Hooks Module (`node:async_hooks`)
  - Single Executable Application
  - Startup Snapshot
  - Loader hooks
  - WASI
  - VM Modules
  - Dotenv (`--env-file`)
  - TypeScript support
  - Shadow Realm
  - Test Coverage
  - Module Mocking
  - Web Storage
  - SQLite
  - Require(ESM)
  - Config File (`node.config.json`)
  - Glob
  - zstd

- Are you using the following new stable features (multiple choice):
  - Import attributes
  - WebSocket client
  - Watch mode (`--watch`)
  - Permission model
  - Test runner (`node:test`)
  - Test Snapshot
  - Task runner (`--run`)
  - Diagnostic APIs (`--cpu-prof`, `--heap-prof`, etc...)

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Are there any key features that you think should be added to Node.js? (open question)

```

> - Do you encounter any recurring issues when using Node.js that you would like to share with us ? (open question)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Do you write and test your code to run on other server side runtimes in addition to Node.js? (Yes No)

- Do you encounter any recurring issues when using Node.js that you would like to share with us ? (open question)
```

  - Cli tools
  - Development of APIs with Microservices
  - Development of APIs with Other
  - Development of APIs with Serverless
  - Full stack development (Next.js, Remix, etc...)
  - Http proxy
  - Implementing desktop applications (ex electron based applications)
  - IoT/Edge devices
  - Mobile applications
  - Other
  - Scripting automation
  - Testing
  - Tooling used to build front end applications

## What Node.js binaries do you use

- What is your Operating System for your local development environment ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - Android
  - Linux
  - Linux with Docker
  - macOS
  - macOS with Docker
  - Other
  - Windows
  - Windows with Docker
  - Windows with WSL

- What is your Operating System in which you are running Node.js in production ? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - Android
  - Linux with Docker
  - Linux/Unix
  - macOS
  - macOS with Docker
  - Other
  - Serverless
  - Unknown
  - Windows
  - Windows with Docker

- What architecture is the machine you are running Node.js in production? (multiple choice - Other should give an input)
  - Arm
  - Don't know
  - Other

>   - x32

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - x86
```
